### References

Tom Basso's ETR blog: [Historical Trading Simulations](https://etrworld.substack.com/p/historical-trading-simulations?sd=pf)
- Whatever you come up with you have to be able to flawlessly execute the trading strategy or it is of zero use to you. If you have a risk tolerance levels at a very low level, you are not going to want to test highly leveraged, high risk level strategies. If you want more action, you’ll not want to mess with strategies that are likely to plod along with very few trades.
- If you want to capture some longer term trends and make only occasional trades, the you should set up your simulation with some long term trend following models. If you are looking to trade more frequently and want to trade in the noise band of prices, then you will go shorter-term trend following perhaps. If you want to catch snap backs against the current trend, the mean reversion indicators will be a logical choice.
- Position sizing: If you are looking for more risk, then ratchet up the position sizing algorithm, so that you are heavily invested, maybe on margin, maybe with futures or options and expect a wild simulation. If you are retired like me, and are not looking to win the US Trading Championship, then dial the exposures back. My risk as a percent of equity and volatility as a percent of equity formulas in my position sizing book are an easy way to do that. I’m running initial risk as a percent of equity at 0.5% and volatility as a percent of equity of 0.2%, fairly low levels.
- Total strategy risk: I also at this point ask myself the question, “How much am I willing to lose if every position moves against me to my stop loss points?” It’s a very important question and one which most people never ask themselves until they are in a drawdown and not sleeping well at night. For me in my futures trading for instance, I use -15% for that strategy. More than that would be uncomfortable for me
