### References

---

### Federal Reserve and QE/QT

[Bloomberg](https://archive.ph/Cmxl7): The Fed Is About to Go Full Throttle on QT. Fear Not.
- "By combining the size of the Fed’s balance sheet with the amount of reverse repos outstanding and the TGA balance, we can create a liquidity indicator that better explains movements in stock prices than just the Fed’s balance sheet alone. Stocks have closely tracked the size of the Fed's balance sheet assets minus reverse repos outstanding and the Treasury General Account."
- "the Fed expanded its reverse repo program, which consisted of the Fed delivering high-quality collateral with the promise to buy it back in a certain number of days at a higher price. Reverse repos are a liquidity draining operation, much like QT. They both involve the Fed decreasing the amount of cash in the system by increasing the amount of bonds. Usually, the Fed would only engage in repo operations with primary dealers, but the need to soak up extra liquidity was so great that it widened the list of eligible counter parties to include mutual funds and other non-traditional accounts."
- The Treasury General Account is another Fed operation that affects liquidity. "In the past, when the government issued fixed-income securities and took in taxes, they almost immediately distributed the funds from those endeavors. As a result, the TGA rarely had a balance. In the Covid era, however, there have been times when the TGA has increased to previously unimagined levels, reaching almost $1.8 trillion in mid-2020. Increases in the TGA have the same effect as QT. Bonds are issued and cash withdrawn from the financial system, but the money is not distributed into the economy. It is a liquidity draining operation."

[Bloomberg](https://archive.ph/nL01X): What the Fed's QT Means for That $2 Trillion Pile of Cash
- "Over the last two years, it bought roughly $4.6 trillion of Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities through quantitative easing to keep longer-term interest rates low and stimulate the economy. Yet the process, also known as QE, created a wall of money that needed to get deposited somewhere, leading to ballooning bank reserves."
- The Fed’s facility for overnight reverse repurchase agreements lets money funds park up to $160 billion apiece and earn 0.80%, more than about 0.70% for a one-month Treasury bill.
- "QT will reduce the supply of reserves, as the Fed plans to roll over some of the bonds on its balance sheet at maturity [allow them to "roll off"?] without replacing it with other assets. If the amount of coupon-bearing debt maturing is less than that, it can fill the gap by not replacing some of its bills too.
The government will then "pay" back the maturing bond by subtracting the sum from the cash balance Treasury keeps on deposit with the Fed - effectively making the money disappear."

[Grit Capital](https://gritcapital.substack.com/i/71521475/quantitative-easing-and-tightening-mechanics): QE & QT mechanics
- "QE is when the Fed and other central banks are buying government bonds — but not directly from the Treasury Department. They’re buying government bonds from banks and paying for them with central bank reserves."

[Medium](https://medium.com/@joshuafkon/a-primer-on-quantitative-easing-qe-and-its-inherent-limits-391a0c2a3cbc): A Primer on Quantitative Easing (QE) and Its Inherent Limits
- "QE is neutral to the monetary base and does not remove government liabilities -although it does lower debt-servicing costs." Per Bernanke: "sometimes you hear the Fed is printing money, that’s not really happening, the amount of cash in circulation is not changing. What’s happening is that banks are holding more and more reserves with the Fed."
- What happens with QE is that "the Federal Reserve and other central banks are buying government bonds — but not directly from the Treasury Department. They’re buying government bonds from banks and paying for them with central bank reserves."
- "Crucially, these cash reserves are held by the central bank and pay an interest rate just as the treasury bonds did. In a sense the Federal Reserve swapped ten year treasury bonds with hypothetical _Federal Reserve Bonds_. That’s why you can see a graph of the money supply that shows a massive increase, and yet inflation has not spiked. The money never entered the economy — it is being held in a vault at the central bank (or more realistically is just a number in a spreadsheet). In practical terms it was an asset swap, not a true increase in the money supply."

Question: What are Treasury bills vs. Treasury bonds?
- Treasury bonds, Treasury bills, and Treasury notes are all government-issued fixed income securities that are deemed safe and secure. These investments are auctioned off regularly on the U.S. Treasury's website; TreasuryDirect.
- T-bonds mature in 20 or 30 years and offer the highest interest payments bi-annually.
- T-notes mature anywhere between two and 10 years, with bi-annual interest payments, but lower yields.
- T-bills have the shortest maturity terms—from four weeks to one year.

[Twitter thread](https://twitter.com/DannyDayan5/status/1646890288290451456): Is it possible the Fed's QT program is unintentionally working against the Fed's fight against inflation? It might be.
- Everyone knows that QE suppresses the term premium in longer dated bonds due to the Fed's large purchases. It is thus surprising that QT has not reversed this at all. As shown below, it is still deeply negative and near the lowest in 5 decades. We have had 2 years of very elevated inflation, massive budget deficits and yet there has been no change to term premium from the extreme repression period of 2020 and 2021.
- Here is where it gets a bit complicated. When the Fed did their massive QE program in 2020 & 2021, approx. 32.5% went to MBS. Mortgage rates in those years were very low, so the Fed was buying MBS with coupons btwn 1-3%.
- MBS bonds at issuance have an effective duration of ~7 years. It is shorter than the 30years maturity of a mortgage because borrowers have a prepayment option. Meaning, when rates decline, they have the option to refinance at lower rates.
- The Fed stopped buying bonds in November 2021. As they then subsequently started raising rates at the fastest pace in decades, MBS rates starting rising. They are now ~6.3%, so very far from the coupons of the bonds that the Fed bought. Effectively, this means the prepayment option for borrowers is worth 0. Nobody will prepay their mortgage and enter a new one at much higher rates, so the option to do so is worthless. But that has big implications for the MBS securities.
- When the prepayment option is 0, the duration of the MBS bond extends. Essentially, it becomes a 30y bond, which will have an effective duration of 15-20 years. This means the Fed's portfolio has drastically changed its risk profile in the last 12 months.
- While the Fed's balance sheet has declined by 4% in notional terms, its effective duration has actually increased substantially. As an example, its effective duration increased by 23% from March 2020 to December 2021, before the hikes began! [The composition of the Fed balance sheet by duration affects interest rates at those maturities.]
- What happens if the Fed's effective duration has doubled? It is a stock vs. flow argument. The Fed is not out in the market buying more bonds, so there is no flow that impacts other investors involved in these securities. The Fed always likes to say that its balance sheet policies "work in the background".
- If QE and the intent of QT were working in the background, then the increased stock of interest rate risk on the Fed's balance sheet is surely having some unintended consequence as well! The Fed raises the Fed Funds rate with an expectation that it impacts the rest of the curve. But most household and corporate borrowing occurs with maturities between 5-10y in maturity, so what these rates do is far more important. The Fed's duration footprint has grown massively in longer dated bonds at the same time that many other investors are pulling back. China, Russia, OPEC members are no longer buying, Japan is also not buying (for now), and banks have also reduced their buying. Many investors are actively short bonds, but the Fed's effective ownership of duration is increasing, making them are a bigger player in the market now!
- This may be complicating their fight against inflation by keeping the much more important 5y and 10y rates too low, which means they might have to increase their policy rate higher than they otherwise need to in order to fight inflation. What should they do about it? I think they need to be more active in selling Tsys from their balance sheet. If term premiums were to return to 1990-2014 averages, the 10y would be 5.5% instead of 3.5%. If it were to return to the 70s and 80s levels, it would be 6.5%. I have no doubt that if the 10y were anywhere near those levels, it would be much more impactful in defeating inflation. Below we can chart the 10y vs core inflation (bottom chart). The 10y is near the easiest levels in history relative to inflation.
- In conclusion, I think the duration extension of their portfolio has worked against their inflation fight by compressing term premiums and making the yield curve more inverted than it otherwise would be, and this is leading to substantial increase in recession fears. I don't dismiss the recession concerns at all, but if fighting inflation is the goal, they may need to get much more active with their balance sheet and restore term premiums to more normal levels. 

---

### Bank reserves and liquidity

[Reuters](https://www.reuters.com/markets/rates-bonds/us-debt-ceiling-saga-softens-feds-qt-mcgeever-2023-01-19/): U.S. debt ceiling saga softens Fed's QT: McGeever [2023-01-19]
- As yet another debt ceiling crisis looms, the Treasury will have to run down its cash balance at the Fed, with potential knock on effects on market liquidity, the yield curve, and even the dollar.
- The TGA is a liability on the Fed's balance sheet. This means that when the TGA goes down, reserves go up, effectively administering an injection of liquidity into the system.

[Reuters](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-treasury-liquidity-explainer/explainer-u-s-treasurys-cash-drawdown-and-why-markets-care-idUSKBN2AM26A): U.S. Treasury's cash drawdown - and why markets care [2021-02-21]
- The U.S. government runs most of its day-to-day business through the TGA - managed by the New York Fed and into which flow tax receipts and proceeds from the sale of Treasury debt.
- When citizens or businesses receives a government cheque, they deposit it at their commercial bank, which presents it to the Fed. The Fed then debits the Treasury’s account and credits the bank’s account at the Fed - increasing its reserve balance.
- The TGA sits on the Fed’s balance sheet as a liability, along with notes, coins and bank reserves. But the Fed’s liabilities must match its assets. So a drop in the TGA must see a rise in bank reserves and vice versa. Last year’s reserves drain was masked by the Fed’s $3 trillion in asset purchases.
- But when cash flows leaves the TGA, bank reserves rise - potentially increasing lending or investment in the wider economy or markets.

[livewiremarkets.com](https://www.livewiremarkets.com/wires/bulls-beware-this-rally-is-about-liquidity-not-fundamentals): Bulls beware – this rally is about liquidity, not fundamentals [2023-01-27]
- What happens during QE? The Fed buys assets like US Treasury bonds and mortgage-backed securities from financial institutions in return for ‘Fed funds’, which the Fed simply creates out of thin air. These funds – bank reserves (aka ‘liquidity’) – circulate in the financial system (but not the real economy). They lead to inflation of asset prices but not inflation in goods and services.
- The assets the Fed buys go onto its balance sheet as an asset, while the bank reserves created and injected into the banking system are the corresponding liability. The Fed’s balance sheet size is therefore a good barometer of the extent of QE.

[Investopedia](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/b/bank-reserve.asp): Bank Reserves: Definition, Purpose, Types, and Requirements
- Bank reserves are the cash minimums that financial institutions must have on hand in order to meet central bank requirements. This is real paper money that must be kept by the bank in a vault on-site or held in its account at the central bank. Cash reserves requirements are intended to ensure that every bank can meet any large and unexpected demand for withdrawals.
- In the U.S., the Federal Reserve dictates the amount of cash, called the reserve ratio, that each bank must maintain. Historically, the reserve ratio has ranged from zero to 10% of bank deposits.

[S&P paper](https://www.hks.harvard.edu/sites/default/files/centers/mrcbg/programs/senior.fellows/2019-20%20fellows/BanksCannotLendOutReservesAug2013_%20(002).pdf): Repeat After Me: Banks Cannot And Do Not "Lend Out" Reserves
- Many talk as if banks can "lend out" their reserves, raising concerns that massive excess reserves created by QE could fuel runaway credit creation and inflation in the future. But banks cannot lend their reserves directly to commercial borrowers, so this concern is misplaced.
- Banks do need to hold reserves (as a liquidity buffer) against their deposits, and banks create deposits when they lend. But normally banks are not reserve constrained, so excess reserves do not loosen a reserve constraint.
- Banks in aggregate can reduce their reserves only to the extent that they initiate new lending and the bank deposits created as a result flow into the economy as new banknotes as the public demands more of them.
- QE does aim to ease financial conditions and spur more bank lending than otherwise would have occurred, but the mechanisms by which this happens are much more subtle and indirect than commonly implied.
- If the excess reserves created by QE were to be associated with too much credit creation, central banks could readily extinguish them.
- [tweet commentary](https://twitter.com/DEhnts/status/1624329431593385984) & [Reddit commentary](https://www.reddit.com/r/Economics/comments/1kdflu/repeat_after_me_banks_cannot_and_do_not_lend_out/)

[Twitter thread](https://twitter.com/dampedspring/status/1615400383555465216) by @dampedspring
- Let's say the government wants to spend while they have a bank account called the TGA. To spend, the Treasury issues a public obligation, either a T-bill or a 10-year note, for example. Assume that everyone with savings is currently satisfied with their asset holdings. To buy the bonds from the Treasury they, need to do one of only two things: use cash or borrow in a secured way from a bank that can magically create cash.
- In both cases the investor is asked to take on more risk than they had planned moments before. If it is T-bills being offered, they are asked to take on very little risk, while if it's 10-year notes, they are asked to take on a little more. The impact on all other assets depends on this issuance because the 10-year notes compete with other long-term assets, while the bills compete with other forms of cash.
- Next step is for the spending by the government. For the moment, assume the spending is instantaneous. So at that moment the private sector gets cash. If they happen to be savers of 100% of the cash, and they want to save exactly what was just issued by the government, nothing happens to markets or the economy. But that's not how spending works, as most spending goes to those who consume.
- ... Let's throw Fed purchases into the mix. The Fed buys the issuance and the market need not adjust. The spending is distributed to savers and spenders, and over time ends ups in savings which need to be funneled to investments. There are isn't a new supply of investments, this results in asset inflation, as the quantity available for the private sector doesn't change while the amount of money held in savings by the private sector has increased.  
- QT is the opposite. In this case, issuance is absorbed by the private sector, and the money is handed back to the Fed and does not create future savings in the private sector. This is deflationary for assets as the quantity of assets circulating increases while the amount of money remains the same ...

---

### Overnight reverse repo facility

[bpi.com](https://bpi.com/the-reverse-repo-bank/): The Reverse Repo Bank
- "The Federal Reserve introduced the overnight reverse repo facility (ON RRP) in 2014 to improve its control of the federal funds rate. The set of counterparties eligible to participate in the ON RRP is quite broad and includes banks, MMFs, government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs) and primary dealers. MMFs and the GSEs have accounted for almost all ON RRP take-up."
- "The ON RRP facility helps the Federal Reserve set a floor on the fed funds rate because the Fed controls the interest rate that MMFs and GSEs earn on their excess holdings of cash. More precisely, by setting the ON RRP rate close or equal to the lower bound of the federal funds rate target range, the Fed effectively sets a hard floor (at least, to date) for the policy rate. "
- "Capital requirements of banks have been significantly increasing over the past 2 years, with both leverage and risk-based requirements rising about 25 percent. Given these balance sheet pressures, it is not surprising that money market funds have been absorbing some of the excess deposits at banks and are investing those funds in the ON RRP facility. We estimate that the $2.2 trillion in RRP balances is currently saving the largest banks $50 billion in tier 1 capital. "

[axios.com](https://www.axios.com/2023/03/31/fed-repo-banks): The $2.3 trillion Fed program banks hate
- Why was the RRP created in 2013? The Federal Reserve was concerned that with the world awash in dollars they had created, they wouldn't be able to raise rates even when they felt they needed to. They were afraid they wouldn't be able to actually change the price of money across the economy unless MMFs and other entities could access cash at that rate from the central bank.
- Their solution: The "overnight reverse repurchase agreement facility" (ON RRP) enables money market mutual funds to accept vast sums of investors' money and pay their customers higher interest rates than banks typically do. How? MMFs could park money at the Fed if there weren't enough T-bills and other super-safe investments for them to buy offering yields close to the Fed's target interest rate.
- RRP usage by MMFs has increased markedly from nearly zero levels two years ago. E.g. the Fidelity Government Money Market Fund's $246B in assets at the end of Feb consisted of $136B in reverse purchase agreements with the New York Fed. The Bank Policy Institute, the research arm of the bank-lobbyist-industrial complex, this week [called the repo facility](https://bpi.com/why-is-the-federal-reserve-abetting-a-drain-of-deposits-from-banks/) "a black hole for bank deposits." Why? When MMFs invest in T-bills in large amounts, those yields fall, reducing their attractiveness. But the ON RRP offers a yield that's insensitive to supply and demand.
- Note: banks themselves also can park money at the Fed and receive interest on it, in the form of "reserves in excess of their regulatory requirements" (banks also have access to the ON RRP facility).

[bpi.com](https://bpi.com/why-is-the-federal-reserve-abetting-a-drain-of-deposits-from-banks/): Why Is the Federal Reserve Abetting a Drain of Deposits from Banks?
- What used to happen investors funneled money to MMFs: "cash that leaves a bank for a MMF is credited to the fund’s bank account, where it's then used to purchase commercial paper or short-term debt. When a MMF uses money in this way, it flows to the bank account of whichever institution sold the asset. Inflows to money-market funds should thus shuffle deposits around the banking system, rather than force them out of it."
- With the introduction of the RRP in 2013: In a usual repo transaction a bank borrows from competitors or the central bank and deposits collateral in exchange. A reverse repo does the opposite. A shadow bank, such as a MMF, instructs its custodian bank to deposit reserves at the Fed in return for securities. 
- The ON RRP interest rate is attractive compared with other money market rates because it is currently only 10 basis points below the interest rate the Fed pays on reserve balances to banks (the IORB rate). For most of its history, the ON RRP rate was 25 below the IORB rate, and use of the facility was essentially zero. That higher spread lifts other money market rates up further above the ON RRP rate. To reverse the giant sucking of the ON RRP, all the Fed need do is lower the interest rate it pays on the ON RRP relative to the rate it pays on reserve balances, for instance by returning the spread between the two to 25 basis points.

[Forward Guidance](https://www.assemblyai.com/playground/transcript/6e35ayl2tq-a041-47cd-ba2e-799d24ec5877) with Joseph Wang and Louis Crandall
- There is a public policy benefit to providing an adequate supply of government guaranteed safe assets. Some would argue for removing the RRP, or cutting rates to punitively low levels to force money out of the RRP facility. But the private sector has shown itself to be really bad at creating safe liquid instruments.
- The Fed thinks that the banking system needs a certain minimum amount of cash in order to function well. And that's what they think of as the lowest level of reserves, comfortable level. Lowest comfortable level of reserves to function. The Fed doesn't really know where that is.
- The Fed doesn't actually have complete control over how many reserves are in the banking system. Because if you are a depositor in a bank, you can always take your money out of the bank and put it in a money market fund, and the money market fund then can take that money and put it in the RRP.
- If the RRP is offering an attractive interest rate, there is a possibility that everyone takes their money out of a bank, puts it into a money market fund, and ends up putting it into the RRP facility. When money goes into the RRP, it takes reserves out of the banking sector. If everyone does this, the bank sector can get low on cash, falling below the lowest comfortable level of reserves, and end up with plumbing problems that cause rates to spike.
- Currently the IORB (interest on reserve balances) and the rates paid on RRP is just 10 basis points. Increasing that to 25 would alter the economics of this enough to steer money back into bank reserves as we approach minimum allowable reserve levels. We don't know what that level is. The Fed can monitor the volume of overdrafts at banks, which are very low because of the plentiful reserve balances. But in 2019, the Fed's data indicated that overdrafts were creeping up steadily.
- If we were to issue a lot of bills, that money would go out of the RRP into the Treasury's account at the Fed, but ultimately would go back into the banking sector, shifting liquidity from RRP to banks. If the Treasury were operating with no constraints, I think the supply of reserve of bills would be a trillion dollars higher today than it is. They've said they want to increase T-bills as a percentage of total public debt, but currently they are constrained due to debt ceiling debates.
- When the Fed buys Treasuries in the market, it's creating new reserves which add to banks' supply of reserves. This also lowers interest rates, which spurs economic activity.
- The Fed uses RRP as an important tool for setting an interest rate floor. Some feel that RRP counterparty limits should be lowered to prevent so much money from moving away from banks into the RRP. But the Fed doesn't want to lower those limits because that would limit their ability to set a short-term rate rates. If a counterparty could park only $30 B at the Fed, then the counterparty would need to put that remaining money elsewhere and likely earn lower rates, hindering the Fed's ability to set short-term rates. The RRP allows investors to earn a free return on an overnight basis; investors don't invest directly in the RRP, but they an invest in money market funds, which can park its cash in the RRP. If you can invest risk free at the Fed at 6%, you wouldn't be willing to accept lower returns from another, riskier, investment.
- The Fed can also set rates through "interest on reserves" (IOR), which is the interest paid to banks when they deposit their cash at the Fed. Through the IOR, the Fed controls the minimum interest rate that banks are willing to earn from lending to borrowers. If IOR increases, then rates paid by borrowers goes up, which dampens economic activity. All these different rates trade at a spread to the RRP rate. If you were to lower the RRP rate, then those other rates would also shift lower, so the RRP would still maintain its relative attractiveness. Note that the Fed can't lower the RRP while maintaining the Fed Funds rate, as the FFR is just a target rate. The RRP rate is the actual effective rate.
- There's been a huge flood of money into money market funds, which then park a lot of cash with the RRP facility. So why hasn't the amount at RRP facilities gone up that much? Partly because FHLB issuance is up, and a lot of MMF cash has been funneled into government and agency money funds. So through the FHLBs, some of this cash that has gone to MMFs has been funneled back into the banking system.

SOFR/IOER
- [thread](https://twitter.com/concodanomics/status/1641233231629656064?s=20) on BTFP, Quantitative Teasing, and SOFR/IOER
- [Investopedia](https://www.investopedia.com/secured-overnight-financing-rate-sofr-4683954): SOFR overview
- [Reuters](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-bonds-repo-explainer/explainer-u-s-repo-market-flirts-with-negative-rates-as-fed-seeks-to-absorb-excess-cash-idUSKBN2C32AI): Explainer: U.S. repo market flirts with negative rates as Fed seeks to absorb excess cash
- [SF Fed](https://www.frbsf.org/education/publications/doctor-econ/2013/march/federal-reserve-interest-balances-reserves/): Why did the Federal Reserve start paying interest on reserve balances held on deposit at the Fed?
- [Cato](https://www.cato.org/cato-journal/spring/summer-2019/interest-reserves-history-rationale-complications-risks): Interest on Reserves: History and Rationale, Complications and Risks
- [Chicago Fed](https://www.chicagofed.org/publications/chicago-fed-letter/2019/423): Understanding Recent Fluctuations in Short-Term Interest Rates

---

### Money supply

What is M1 vs. M2: from [2023-04-24 episode](https://am.jpmorgan.com/us/en/asset-management/adv/insights/market-insights/market-updates/notes-on-the-week-ahead/) of _Notes on the Week Ahead_
- M1 consists of currency in circulation and various kinds of liquid checking accounts at banks and credit unions. 
- M2 = M1 + money held in CD’s and other time deposits below $100,000 and retail money market funds.
- M2 rose in 2020-2021 due to the Fed buying up Treasuries and MBS. It is now falling due to QT of $95B per month.
- MMFs, which are part of M2 but not M1, pay much more competitive rates and are likely contributing to the sharper decline in M1, which has fallen by 5.8% over the past year compared to a 2.4% decline in M2

Why does M2 growth no longer explain economic growth?
- between 1953 and 1983, 42% of the change in year-over-year nominal GDP growth could be explained by changes in the year-over-year growth in M2 two quarters earlier.
- from 1984 to 2019, year-over-year M2 growth explained less than 1% of the year-over-year change in nominal GDP two quarters later.
- why? alternative payment methods and competitive rates paid on MMFs and ETFs have made monetary aggregates like M1 and M2 less relevant to the economy. If, for some reason, the use of cash and checking accounts was somehow constrained, the economy would seamlessly move to using other means to complete transactions
- it may also be due to the increasing use of QE: starting from already low rates, further cuts in rates can cause the economy to slow by reducing the income of savers, increasing public worries about recession and encouraging people to wait for even lower rates before completing transactions; at the same time, rate-sensitive sectors like home-building and capital spending have diminished in importance

---

### US Banking System Failures

[FDIC paper](https://www.fdic.gov/bank/historical/history/): An Examination of the Banking Crises of the 1980s and Early 1990s
- The distinguishing feature of the history of banking in the 1980s was the extraordinary upsurge in the number of bank failures. Between 1980 and 1994 more than 1,600 banks insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) were closed or received FDIC financial assistancefar more than in any other period since the advent of federal deposit insurance in the 1930s 
- The behavior of banks in the regions and sectors that suffered recessions during the 1980s also exhibited some common elements:
  - In the economic expansions that preceded these recessions, banks generally responded aggressively to rising credit demands.
  - Banks that failed during the regional recessions generally had assumed greater risks, on average, than those that survived, as measured by ratios of total loans and commercial real estate loans to total assets. Banks that failed had generally not been in a seriously weak condition (as measured by equity-to-assets ratios) in the years preceding the regional recessions.
  - Banks chartered in the 1980s and mutual institutions converting to the stock form of ownership failed with greater frequency than comparable banks
