## general chat notes for 2025-Oct

Question: does Risk Premia API already include gold seasonality or they are kept separated?
- Kris: No it's just a straight RP strategy with inverse vol weighting and covariance tilts.

Question: Just to be sure, where can we find the most up to date info/documentation on the data available through RW API?
- Kris: The swagger docs are here: https://robot-wealth.github.io/rw-api/ (also accessable via your Dashboard --> List of Tools). The interactive bits don't work, but you can also paste those endpoints + your API key into a browser, or use curl to inspect what comes out.

---

Question: In the newsletter Kris writes:
- "If I’ve got a coin that comes up heads 55% of the time, my edge is 10 cents per flip (on a dollar bet). But 10 cents is never going to be the outcome of any single flip. Expected value is an average, not the most common outcome."
- I know how to calculate expected value for some things like this coin flip: (1 * .55) - (1*.45).
- But ive always wondered how to calculate expected value for trading strategies. I just use CAGR of a 10 year simulation, which is absolutely nothing like expected value.
- Can you please share how you would calculate the expected value of some simple strategies? Perhaps the bond seasonality trade and maybe even the 3 asset RPH strategy? Caveat: I haven't watched the recent vol book club yet, so if this is covered in there just let me know. Ill get to it soon tho.

Kris: Short answer... you can't. At least not with any precision. Often when I'm explaining a trading concept, I'll try to make it real by putting some numbers around a known random process, like a coin flip. In trading though, we have another layer of uncertainty - we never really know what our edge is, at least with any precision. 
- An honest assessment of what we can realistically say about most of the things we'll trade is that we think they're likely to make money in the long run. That is, they're likely to have a positive expected value. That conclusions comes about based on what we think we know about the edge and what the data says. 
- We can make comparisons where we go "I think this thing is likely have a higher EV than that thing", but the expected value of a trading strategy isn't something you calculate with any precision or confidence. The best you could do is calculate an average historical return or a historical Sharpe - but that will usually have a huge estimation error, and almost certainly it's changing under your feet even as you estimate it. 
- You'll notice that even when I illustrate a concept by talking about something with a known edge, that there's still a huge amount of uncertainty over individual outcomes. Now layer on the fact that we don't even know how big the edge actually is and you see why trading is so exciting. Uncertainty everywhere...
