## Discord notes from 2025 August

"How do you guys typically handle a factor whose relationship with forward returns is mostly stable (strong correlation), but the sign flips for long periods of time? and i believe the change is a structural non-random change in the relationship. first things that come to mind are:
- identify the root cause of the relationship change, maybe its some condition i didn't account for/model properly and then condition on that
- if i believe its an underlying change in how the market prices the factor, then build some sort of adaptiveness in the signal based on past IC"

In an ideal world, there'd be a clear causal mechanism that you could incorporate into your model. More likely though, the change will only be obvious in hindsight. 
- One thing you can try is to quantify the stickiness of the sign and magnitude of the IC (scatter plot of today's IC vs tomorrow's IC, autocorrelation plot, etc). If it's positive in one period, is it likely to be positive in the next and vice versa. If the answer to that question is yes, then you could do some sort of rolling IC of the raw factor, and use that flip its sign and maybe even scale it - need to be a bit careful with overfitting though. And depending on just how sticky it is, it might not improve things. But worth looking at.

---

"I remember that @therobotjames alluded to a way of hedging while making money without getting into details. Can we hedge a portfolio using a selling options strategy with controlled risk?"

Euan: No. I really think people should get into the habit of separating edge from hedge. A hedge is a risk control to reduce your exposure to stuff you don't want. If it makes money it is an edge. And it is really cool if your edges are anti-correlated (they almost never will be) but they still aren't hedges. Splitting stuff like this makes what is going on a lot more clear.
Kris: Kris A. wrote an excellent article about this - scroll down about half way, worth a read: "If You Make Money Every Day, You’re Not Maximizing"

---

"Would it be stupid to spend time looking around for a silly premia between say IBIT and MSTR etc given NAV seems out of whack? What has existed like this before that would be similar and that we have analysed before if anything, would something from Armageddon trading be relevant?"

Rob Carver wrote a nice piece playing with some premia around MSTR. It had some cool methodology and might be what you are looking for: https://docsend.com/view/fkcwetk5gwk66sz6
... Feel like this is more achievable with IBIT or something perhaps.
... if it's the vibes coeff and its error margin that gets you paid, you should be doing this on $BMNR and the soon-to-launch Nakamoto and American Bitcoin. with managing slippage, your bias should be skewed to the upside given how good these guys are at collusive grifting.
"If you were estimating weighted average price and you want to use multiple levels insstead of just the first level in the book, what would be a good way to weight the price levels further away from the best? the formula for 1 level looks like: WAP = (bid size x ask price + ask size x bid price) / (bid size + ask size). Trying to think of good way to weight further levels of the book inversely proportional to their distance from best."

You can exponentially decay it.
... or maybe another way would be to use distance away from best measured in price of underlying as opposed to using level number. not sure which would be better. Depends on tick size.

---

I hope some of you could help me clarify something in regards to position sizing dynamics in a "dollar-neutral" portfolio. Specifically I am having some troubles determining the effective position size for short positions. And I might be overcomplicating it.

Lets assume we have traded into two assets, with both starting price at 100. We are long 1 unit, and short 1 unit.  At the start of the trade, everything looks like this:
- Long: 100 USD
- Short: -100 USD
- Portfolio: 0

Now lets say the long asset increases to 110, and the short asset decreases to 90. In both scenarios we have gained +10USD, and a total of +20 USD. The portfolio from my broker now looks like this:
- Long: 110 USD
- Short: -90 USD
- Portfolio: +20 USD (which reflects the gains)

If I were to rebalance now (lets say I always want to rebalance to 100 USD for all positions for simplicity's sake), I would have to take OFF 10 USD risk of the long asset, but for the short asset I would add on risk by shorting more, such that;
- Long: 100 USD
- Short: -100 USD
- Portfolio: 0

This is what is causing me to be a bit unsure. Because the long position value reflects the gains, but the short position just reflects what the position is worth when we buy it back at a lower price, but it does not take into account the gains. This in turn led me to start toying around with a "effective position size" for the short position which would be: -Position size - 2xPNL. In this scenario, this would look like:
- Long: 110 USD
- Short: -90 USD - 2*10 = -110 USD
- Portfolio: 0

Basically a dollar-neutral portfolio which reflects equal USD size gains on both legs. In this scenario I take off risk on both legs when the trade goes "my way", and I add on risk on both legs if both go "against me".

Euan: "I briefly talked about this on Tuesday. Longs and shorts behave differently. Longs get bigger as they make money, but shorts get smaller. You just need to rebalance."
- But in terms of rebalancing, Is it incorrect to rebalance accounting for the P&L (the "effective" position size I mentioned above), or should I just rebalance in terms of what the actual position size is displaying? Basically taking off risk on longs and adding risk to shorts when the positions make money. The advantage for the short position in this case is that I will be taking off risk when the position goes against me (other way around for longs), but that also goes against the theoretical "If I short at price 100, and price goes to 110, E[R] increases and the short should be more lucrative, given that my "thesis" is correct".

Kris: You really want to be treating rebalancing purely as the process that brings your exposures into line with what you want. 
- > If I short at price 100, and price goes to 110, E[R] increases and the short should be more lucrative, given that my "thesis" is correct"
- The problem with this is that if you have an edge, your thesis will be correct on average. In the short-term, you'll have times when it's wrong and times when it's right. You almost always have no way to predict when you're more or less likely to be wrong. Your edge plays out on average over the long run. _So if you take a bigger position at a certain time, you're essentially letting the results from that decision dominate your overall results_. And since you have no way of knowing if there's anything special about that result, you're introducing a source of luck. It's just as likely to deliver a big loss as it is to deliver a big win. But since you have an edge, it doesn't make sense to rely on luck. You should rely on that edge working out in the long run. And to do that, it makes sense to prevent any one result from dominating your overall results. That's the essence of rebalancing.
