### 2025 June Discord notes [up to 2025-06-12]

Right now, I'm making over 100%/yr in high yield ETFs with little work so maybe I don't care. [[link](https://discord.com/channels/1368787013763072040/1368844123251015751/1377653456545779822)]
- For example: MSTY. A number of people on this site will tell you that you can DIY by selling covered calls.  Maybe/Maybe not. You have to work your own math and factor in your own time to execute.  My time is valuable. Others may tell you that the risk is high.  Maybe/Maybe not.  I don't know. These investments are typically done on margin.  I am using reasonable margin and have been doing this for about 6 months.  All dividends have been reinvested. I am currently making 109%/year if the dividends continue.  They probably won't.  But I'm in about 10 ETFs so there is some diversification. Think carefully about your own personal risk tolerance before jumping in.  Over 100% per year sounds great until we find out that we missed a key issue.

"Speaking of replicating high yield etf": Mark Phillips' [Substack post](https://thetill.substack.com/p/how-to-buy-a-rolex-every-two-years), 'How to buy a Rolex every two years'.
- > Whether you’re using 10,000 shares or only 1,000 of AAPL, following the size and strike algorithm achieved superior gross and net yields, and left the investor with a higher capital account balance. While all of these are conditional on the relatively short track record of comparison, this same dynamic was true in all of the seven selected stocks.
- > By adjusting the distribution knobs, one can bias the strategy to preserve more capital or yield more. That’s not going to be available in an ETF. Further, in a case like JPM you can have your cake and eat it too - literally.
- > Thanks to stock performance and some deft trading, with HVF_JPM targeting 2% distributions, you not only end up with an average monthly distribution amount of 2% with a tight and consistent range, the baseline pie is getting bigger. And the distributions are more tax efficient.

---

"Maybe a dumb question, but how which  strategy should i be adding to a portfolio for a start? as many as possible as long it is uncorrelated? Seems VRP should be a main strat while adding smaller zero sum ones?"
- If you’re starting from nothing, I’d start with a simple **risk premia harvesting strategy** like stocks, bonds, and gold. Then I’d add the **bond seasonality** and **rebalancing** game strategies because they just modify your existing holdings. Then it’s up to you - wanna stay in that tradfi account ... do the VRP thing. Got crypto? Try a breakout (or the YOLO). I’m actually doing the crypto breakout using IBIT and EETH in my tradfi account so that’s an option too.
- Regarding the 'crypto breakout strategy': the latest is in the Excel Edge course. It was in the crypto Lambo course too. Another comment: "Scott [Philips] gives the basic strategy here too [in this Flirting with Models interview] (on [YouTube](youtube.com/watch?si=1GI7rmCv8Pgm1lnz&v=I4n3KX4zYPA&feature=youtu.be)). Listen to the crypto trend goat himself talk about it."
- I think this depends on your goals, what your risk appetite is, and what operational overhead you're willing to deal with. I personally find it helpful to start at a smaller size than my theoretical allocation (typically a 1/3rd), and either make some mistakes or suffer through a few drawdowns before adding more size.
- Euan: Also, don't get too hung up on finding uncorrelated stuff. **Almost all profitable things at a given time scale are positively correlated**. Even more so in stress scenarios. Just make money. It is a lot easier to suffer drawdowns if you are already up. [In response to comment, 'This is quite different from what I have heard so far, can you elaborate a bit on this?'] Just that often people see someone on twitter say "I've got five uncorrelated strategies and combined I get a Sharpe of 6". It's not true of anyone except larpers. That is obviously good but it won't be true. There aren't 5 uncorrelated strategies. Any reduction in correlation is good. 85% is better than 100. **The way real quant funds operate is to have 100 85% correlated things.** For an individual this isn't possible. There is a point where management difficulties outweigh benefits. I think this is one of those 'solving a problem before it arrives' things. Just make money.
- Kris: Adding to the good advice above, your operational constraints will play a big role too obviously. If you're only able to be at the screens for end of day, trying to do faster stuff will send you crazy. Also depends on your account - if you don't have a lot of buying power, the equity pairs strategy won't be viable. But the VRP thing will be.

---

"I wanted to do the research for the **pairs trading strategy** for universe of stocks outside of the US and I wanted your advice on where to start with the code? I went through the GitHub repository but unfortunately couldn’t get my head around where to start from since I’m mostly familiar with Python. Would really appreciate your help. Thanks."
- What you see in that repo is just the SQL code for reproducing the universe selection pipeline. I think you'll get a much better sense of what it's doing if you go through the original courses for context. The first half of the [ML and Big Data](https://robotwealth.com/courses/machine-learning-bootcamp/) course (modules 1 - 6) will give you all the info. In the [pairs trading course](https://robotwealth.com/courses/rw-pro-alpha-pairs-trading-bootcamp/), we did some additional research for the time stop and some implementation stuff. Definitely worth including that for context too.

... I was wondering if anyone has been trading the pairs trading strategy with the PTPs excluded because of the IRS witholding charges (10% of the sales proceeds) for non-US taxpayers? My backtest is showing basically flat results for the past 3-4 years.
- Yes! We discussed this a while back - excluding the PTPs is recommended and how I've been trading it. IB maintains a list of PTPs.

"it might be a silly question but for pairs trading, do we need to use adjusted close prices or unadj close prices?"
- Kris: Use adjusted for anything that you need to calculate returns for.

---

"For combining Unravel weights with the YOLO weights, would it better having the YOLO weights calculated at the same time as the Unravel weights? (I think they come in at midnight UTC but might be wrong) not expecting you to update the RW API for this but maybe something I can put together my self"
- Yeah it would be ideal to have the YOLO weights and the Unravel signals calculated at the same time. Right now, YOLO comes in 9 hours after the Unravel signals - which is not the end of the world. In the research I shared a couple of weeks ago, I simulated this lag between the signals and it held up well. I'm tossing around the idea of calculating signals for YOLO twice a day to try and accommodate people in different time zones but could align with Unravel too. Will need to give this some thought. Probably won't happen in the short term. 

"In the webinar you vol-target YOLO by assuming full allocation and taking the resultant volatility, whereas in the TLAQ web app the position sizes are scaled by the asset volatility. How does this work for combining them both at a portfolio level?"
- Re combining YOLO with the TLAQ strategies - a couple of ways you could approach this. Probably easiest is to simulate the TLAQ portfolio with your asset-wise volatilities and estimate the vol of that thing as if it were a single component. Then just assign whatever portion of your vol budget you want and scale it accordingly. Can do an example of this if you want?

---

"What’s generally best practice for when things dis/qualify for a universe. E.g top x market cap, if two tickers are close and keep dropping in and out?"
- Mark Aron / Unravel: "we do the following: (1) aggressive volume / OI filters or somewhat equivalent to that -- multiple sorting metrics, average their rank; (2) apply moving averages on the primary ranking metric, before calculating the rank (can be even 3 months MA or so); (3) update the universe less frequently (once a week / month / quarter)

---

"Anyone here has experience trading electricity futures? Looking to understand the dynamics of electricity derivatives markets."
- Euan: It is a very different structure. There are "hubs" which are cooperatives owned by producers and utilities. They also operate a futures market. Almost all of the trading is producer to consumer. Not many speculators because you need to be a member of the hub to trade. Exactly what trades and how differs by hub. I used to trade pjm hourly day ahead futures. Very clear calendar effects. Access is the hard part. I imagine other countries are completely different.
- I’m dealing with a Power trading firm at work where I’m trying to get them a clear pipeline from developing Battery Energy Storage sites through to them signing as the off taker for the Australian NEM and we also provide the connection trading software or at least the ability to control the system so they can import or export. I will track down the couple of resources but one is wattclarity.com.au and you can find short course on how the Au NEM dispatch works. Hoping to get a view behind the scenes shortly in their Singapore or Sydney office. Had a beer with one of the senior traders the other week and it sounds like they are doing a lot of relative price comparison intraday, day ahead and with the development through battery system connection contract idea I’m running with them would allow up to quarter ahead apparently. So my trade with them is purely physical market at this point, but I want to sound smart so was going to ask here as well - anyone know of a particularly good book on Power trading? The last two weeks apparently were amazing profits with the volatility in Australian power markets 
- Euan: I'm not sure I'd say any books were "particularly good", but that might just be due to the quirkiness of the market structure. This one gave an overview of how the stack was built and I found it helpful as  high level background. Books: 'Electricity Markets' and 'Energy Trading and Risk Management'.

---

"There used to be a python version of the rwRtools in github, rwPtools or something. Just noticed that it's no longer there -- is it still maintained?"
- Kris: No, it's no longer being maintained. Currently looking to hire for some tech help, which will increase our capacity to offer stuff like this.
