#### Asset Allocation Strategies

---

### How important is asset allocation?

From the CFA Institute [blog post](https://blogs.cfainstitute.org/investor/2012/02/16/setting-the-record-straight-on-asset-allocation/), "Setting the Record Straight on Asset Allocation"
- In 1986, Brinson, Hood, and Beebower (BHB) sought to explain the effects of asset allocation policy on pension plan returns. In their seminal paper, "Determinants of Portfolio Performance," BHB concluded that asset allocation is the primary determinant of a portfolio’s return variability, with security selection and market timing (together, active management) playing minor roles. A linear time-series regression in their study yielded an average R-squared of 93.6%, leading BHB to conclude that asset allocation explained 93.6% of the variation in a portfolio’s quarterly returns.
- Unfortunately the BHB paper has been widely misinterpreted. An important nuance in the BHB paper that was missed by many: the BHB study was focused only on the variability of returns and not on return levels or relative performance. A common misinterpretation: _"One study suggests that more than 91.5% of a portfolio’s return is attributable to its mix of asset classes. In this study, individual stock selection and market timing accounted for less than 7% of a diversified portfolio’s return."_ One of the researchers, Hood, later pointed out, “Nothing in the original paper suggests that active asset management is not an important activity. It was not the point of our paper, and our goal was not to demonstrate otherwise.”
- The paper has been criticized by several researchers: _"The fundamental problem with BHB’s analysis is its focus on explaining return volatility rather than portfolio returns. In fact, investors should be more concerned with the range of likely outcomes over their investment planning horizon than the volatility of returns. Fixed asset allocation solutions are inferior to analytically linking forward-looking strategic asset allocation solutions ... As the investor’s circumstances or market opportunities change, so also should the investor’s asset allocation."_
- Ibbotson's 2010 paper examined these misconceptions of the paper's findings and found that asset allocation did indeed explain about 90% of the period-to-period variability of a portfolio, as stated by the original paper. But the high R-squared was due to the funds’ exposure to the capital markets in general. Ibbotson extended the research to consider asset allocation’s impact on the variation of returns **among funds** and the **level** of a typical fund’s return. They found that "only about 40% of the return variation between funds is due to asset allocation, with the balance due to other factors, including asset-class timing, style within asset classes, security selection, and fees."
- From the "The Equal Importance of Asset Allocation and Active Management" [paper](https://www.jstor.org/stable/27809176) [2010] by Ibbotson et al: The researchers used cross-sectional regressions to decompose a portfolio’s return into its three components — the market return, the asset allocation policy return in excess of the market return, and the return from active management. In contrast to the BHB paper, this paper separated the overall market returns from the incremental impact of asset allocation policy. Their key finding: About three-quarters (75%) of a typical fund’s variation in time-series returns comes from general market movement, with the remaining portion split roughly evenly between the specific asset allocation and active management. From the paper: "With market movements removed, asset allocation and active management are equally important in determining portfolio return differences within a peer group."

---

### On risk-tolerance and the ability to stick to investment strategies

From the [paper](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4318157): "A Century of Asset Allocation Crash Risk" [2023]
- Reliance on extended historical data is associated with the lower probability of early abandonment of the strategy and with the higher cumulative returns. However, only risk-tolerant investors in our study are able to capture the full extent of the benefit of information that is made available to them. 
- Risk-tolerant and well-informed investors about possible drawdowns investors achieve significantly better results when they use extended historical sample developing their prior beliefs about possible investment outcomes. They almost never abandon their investment strategy, ride the market in and out of the crisis, and enjoy attractive full-period returns. On the contrary, investors who exhibit risk-neutral or risk-averse behavior, as well as those who rely on short-term history in developing their investment beliefs, easily exit and lose their investment opportunities. Furthermore, performance of Risk Parity and Dynamic portfolios relies most heavily on the extent of information available to investors in all investment horizons and regardless of their risk preferences.
- We also study the effect of the opportunity to re-enter the investment strategy once market uncertainty settles and find the overwhelming evidence that the re-entry option improves investment outcomes. However, adherence to the strategy during the entire anticipated investment period is still superior to exit and re-entry in most cases.

---

### Alternative strategies as "complicated wrappers" for varying levels of stock exposure

From the CFA Institute [post](https://blogs.cfainstitute.org/investor/2023/07/24/when-hindsight-becomes-foresight-replicating-investment-performance/), "When Hindsight Becomes Foresight: Replicating Investment Performance"
- "Most of the products described in more than 300 research papers [spanning dozens of public and private market investment strategies, such as merger arbitrage and private equity] simply provide exposure to the stock market in complicated wrappers. Once the tide goes out, the risk exposure is the same everywhere."
- We can demonstrate this phenomenon in different ways. The most common approach is to simply run a factor exposure analysis. But there is an even simpler and perhaps more powerful way to illustrate this point: by using a combination of the S&P 500 and cash to replicate the historical performance of an investment product with the same level of risk.
- We analyzed the iMGP DBi Hedge Strategy ETF (DBEH), which tracks the 40 leading long–short equity hedge funds, and found that an 81% allocation to the S&P 500 and a 19% allocation to cash would have delivered almost the same performance with the same volatility. A more comprehensive version of this study would be based on the HFRX Equity Hedge index, which has 20 years of history. The HFRX Equity Hedge Index’s volatility was 6.1% over the 2003 to 2023 period, which we could have replicated with a 52% allocation to the S&P 500 and 49% to cash. But the replication portfolio’s CAGR would have been 3.7% compared with 2.0% for the hedge funds, and the drawdown would have fallen from 31% to 19%. This results in significantly higher risk-adjusted returns for the replication portfolio. Given that an S&P 500 ETF today has basically zero expenses, while hedge funds come with high management and performance fees, who wouldn’t favor the replication portfolio?
- "Given the 0.71 correlation between the HFRX Equity Hedge Index and the S&P 500, there is little question that long–short equity hedge funds offer diluted equity exposure. Furthermore, the HFRX index’s upside beta to the S&P 500 was 0.16 compared with 0.25 on the downside. As such, equity hedge funds follow falling stocks more than rising ones."
