### On the “Suckers at the Poker Table” Fallacy in the market

**Question**: Can a smart active investor still make above-market returns when so much more money is coming from passive investors? Who can smart active investors profit from if there are fewer and fewer bad active managerst to trade against?

Source: CFA Institute [blog post](https://blogs.cfainstitute.org/investor/2016/02/02/active-investing-really-the-losers-game/), "Active vs. Passive Investing"

- The "suckers at the poker table" theory says that an increase in passive investing is bad for active investors like Buffett because the fewer suckers [bad active managers] there are to fleece, the less profit there is for smart active investors. On the other hand, Buffet says that passive investors make his job easier: "Naturally the disservice done students and gullible investment professionals who have swallowed EMH has been an extraordinary service to us ... In any sort of a contest — financial, mental, or physical — it’s an enormous advantage to have opponents who have been taught that it’s useless to even try."

- Why do markets tend toward an equilibrium where prices are boundedly efficient, where there is no more mispricing than at the level that would make arbitrage profitable? Per the Grossman-Stiglitz paradox, you can’t have a perfectly efficient market because that requires someone to be willing to arbitrage away any inefficient price. But arbitrageurs have to get paid for their trouble. So they will only step in if they’re compensated for their time, data services, research, compliance, office rent, overhead, and an adequate after-tax, risk-adjusted return.

- In order to have any profitable active investors, it seems you have to posit overconfident, “dumb” active money that loses money trading against the “smart” arbitrageurs. But this implies the persistence of a class of irrational investors. On the other hand, what happens if passive investors take over the market so there is only one active investor left: our hypothetical Warren Buffett? Here is where the distinction between holding period vs. money-weighted returns comes into play. In this example that spans 3 years, the index fair value grows by 5% each year while the actual index price fluctuates above and below its fair value in different years. Thus everyone gets the same 5% holding period return (i.e. the return from Year 0 to the end of Year 3), which ignores flows, but on a _money-weighted, risk-adjusted basis_, Warren Buffett crushes the market and the other typical investors. He does this by _staying out of the market until it trades at a 10% discount_, holds on and then sells it at a 10% premium, and ends up with a 28.3% money-weighted return (i.e. his return on the original $1,000 upon selling).

- So what is Buffett doing? He _increases the size of the overall pie when the odds are in his favor, shrinks it when they aren’t_, and outperforms without necessarily taking anything from the other investors, who earn the market return in each holding period. So in general, arbitrageur active traders can do pretty well, even without a large pool of permanently underperforming “dumb money,” whose continued existence would be illogical. Smart money going into appropriately priced investment opportunities grows the whole pie. Dumb money going to bad businesses shrinks the pie. Once it’s not a strictly zero-sum game, you don’t need “suckers at the poker table” to outperform.
