### On the “Suckers at the Poker Table” Fallacy in the market

From the CFA Institute [blog post](https://blogs.cfainstitute.org/investor/2016/02/02/active-investing-really-the-losers-game/), "Active vs. Passive Investing"
- The "suckers at the poker table" theory says that an increase in passive investing is bad for active investors like Buffett because the fewer suckers there are to fleece, the less profit there is for smart active investors. On the other hand, Buffet says that passive investors make his job easier: "Naturally the disservice done students and gullible investment professionals who have swallowed EMH has been an extraordinary service to us ... In any sort of a contest — financial, mental, or physical — it’s an enormous advantage to have opponents who have been taught that it’s useless to even try."
- Why do markets tend toward an equilibrium where prices are boundedly efficient, where there is no more mispricing than at the level that would make arbitrage profitable? Per the Grossman-Stiglitz paradox, you can’t have a perfectly efficient market because that requires someone to be willing to arbitrage away any inefficient price. But arbitrageurs have to get paid for their trouble. So they will only step in if they’re compensated for their time, data services, research, compliance, office rent, overhead, and an adequate after-tax, risk-adjusted return.
- In order to have any profitable active investors, it seems you have to posit overconfident, “dumb” active money that loses money trading against the “smart” arbitrageurs. But this implies the persistence of a class of irrational investors. On the other hand, what happens if passive investors take over the market so there is only one active investor left: our hypothetical Warren Buffett? Here is where the distinction between holding period vs. money-weighted returns comes into play. In this example that spans 3 years, the index fair value grows by 5% each year while the actual index price fluctuates above and below its fair value in different years. Thus everyone gets the same 5% holding period return (i.e. the return from Year 0 to the end of Year 3), which ignores flows, but on a money-weighted, risk-adjusted basis, Warren Buffett crushes the market and the other typical investors. He does this by staying out of the market until it trades at a 10% discount, holds on and then sells it at a 10% premium, and ends up with a 28.3% money-weighted return (i.e. his return on the original $1,000 upon selling).
- So what is Buffett doing? He increases the size of the overall pie when the odds are in his favor, shrinks it when they aren’t, and outperforms without necessarily taking anything from the other investors, who earn the market return in each holding period. So in general, arbitrageur active traders can do pretty well, even without a large pool of permanently underperforming “dumb money,” whose continued existence would be illogical. Smart money going into appropriately priced investment opportunities grows the whole pie. Dumb money going to bad businesses shrinks the pie. Once it’s not a strictly zero-sum game, you don’t need “suckers at the poker table” to outperform.

---

### Expected returns: geometric vs. average

---

[Breaking the Market](https://breakingthemarket.com/solving-the-equity-premium-puzzle-and-uncovering-a-huge-flaw-in-investment-theory/): Solving the Equity Premium Puzzle, and Uncovering a Huge Flaw in Investment Theory.
- This post aims to convey the importance of the geometric average and highlight the foundational problem with financial studies- that a stock market index does not represent the stock market.
- The puzzle: "Equities (stocks) have provided a real return of about 7% for the last 100 years.  The risk-free rate (treasury bills) has provided about 1% of return. The 6% difference between these two investments is very high.  Economic models imply this difference should be at most 1%.  We don’t know why the large difference exists."
- It should be easy now to understand the enormous apple to oranges mistake in the original study.  The stock market and a stock market index are not interchangeable. One recent paper (Bessembinder, 2018) gets close by recognizing that 58 percent of common stocks do not keep pace with the returns of a one month treasury bill over time, but does not call out the false equivalency being made by the market index comparison.

[Breaking the Market](https://breakingthemarket.com/the-great-age-of-rebalancing-begins/): The Great Age of Rebalancing Begins
- There are two main reasons why [geometric rebalancing] hasn’t been implemented in any widespread capacity yet. The first is psychological. Rebalancing costs were the second, and more important reason. Let’s explore through the lens of Shannon’s Demon.
- Shannon’s Demon works best under three conditions: (a) The assets are volatile. The more volatile the better. (b) The assets are not correlated. Uncorrelated is ok. Negatively correlated is best. Shannon used cash in his example which is always uncorrelated. (c) Rebalancing doesn’t cost anything.
- This explains the historical lack of adoption: (a) "There are only so many uncorrelated assets to choose from. Shannon’s Demon can work with anything that is not 100% correlated, but the more correlated the assets, the smaller the benefit." (b) Most traditional assets are not that volatile. Stocks can be volatile, but normally they don’t bounce much from day to day. The lack of volatility constrains the overall benefit as well. However the benefit still exists. (c) "Finally, rebalancing a portfolio certainly isn’t free. There are always transaction costs. And through most of history, these transaction costs were so high they overwhelmed any benefit frequent rebalancing provided."

[Breaking the Market](https://breakingthemarket.com/the-arithmetic-return-doesnt-exist/): The Arithmetic Return Doesn’t Exist. It’s a dream that isn’t real.
- Each repetition of volatility chews away at its foundation until its dissolves into the geometric return.
- "As time continues on, the likelihood of your path achieving the arithmetic return nears closer and closer to zero. You only get one “sample”. Time is going to win and that one sample isn’t going to “find” the arithmetic return, just like a sample wasn’t going to find the lottery’s arithmetic return... With enough time the arithmetic return becomes pure luck. It’s theoretically possible to receive the arithmetic return, but you need to get lucky. You are betting on flipping a lot more heads than tails. This is possible but unlikely, and you only get one play."
- "The law of large numbers works against you here. We’ve been taught that with more trials, the sample moves closer towards the “average”. But which average in this case?1 What if you play this game in series? Three 50 flip games in a row is the same as the 150 game. The likelihood of receiving the average return at 150 flips is worse than at 50 flips. Playing the games more often, one after each other doesn’t make the arithmetic average more likely. It makes it less likely."
- "A 'sample' taken from multiple compounded coin flips is very, very unlikely to “find” the arithmetic return. It’s far more likely that it tracked toward the geometric return."

[Breaking the Market](https://breakingthemarket.com/math-games/): Understanding Investing Math Games
- Which game represents buy and hold? 
- Which game(s) represents index investing? 
- Which game(s) represents traditional portfolio construction? 
- Which game(s) represents trend following? 
- Which game represents Geometric Balancing?
- Which game represents the best strategy?

---

### On why trend-following seems to work

[Breaking the Market](https://breakingthemarket.com/to-infinity-and-back/): To Infinity and Back
- Most trend following strategies use trailing moving averages to define the level of loss required to trigger selling. Those averages lag behind the current price.  If the price falls back down below the trailing moving average, the asset is sold in order to limit losses.  Others use a trailing moving stop, i.e, when the price falls 10% from its peak, they sell it. If you read my blog, you know I don’t believe individual assets trend or show momentum.  But, trend following is still a very viable strategy, with some very unique attributes.
- Trend following effectively expands (increases) the arithmetic return of the game. This lead to the conclusion that trend following individual assets may work because it: (a) Combines a group of low correlated, return expanding, “infinity” games together; (b) Uses the natural tendency of an investment fail quickly to partially rebalance the games. This system works, even if the underlying stocks behave entirely randomly, never actually trending.
- So random coin flip games set up to simulate trend following rules produce great returns.  But what about the variance and standard deviation of those returns? Turns out the +50%/heads, -40%/tails game produces infinite standard deviation as well.  As the winnings expand with a large number of consecutive heads, the standard deviation grows even faster, shooting upward to infinity.
- Compounding distorts arithmetic returns, and standard deviation, to the point of driving them to infinity. But since the geometric return is an average built for compounding, it never gets distorted.3 The geometric return is the "truth" return when it comes to multiplicative games. You can’t hide from it and it will always be there. Investing games are always multiplicative games. Even when the arithmetic return is undefended, and the variance is undefined, the geometric return can still very much be defined.  The geometric return is actually more tangible, more real, than any other measure of a compounded random processes.

[Breaking the Market](https://breakingthemarket.com/trend-following-is-hot-air/): Trend Following is Hot Air
- "The easiest conclusion is that a concentrated market index is potentially trouble. And there is some historical data which backs this up. Entering 2000 the S&P 500 was historically concentrated. We know how that played out. Also historically when the “market breadth”–the number of stocks which rise during a rally–is low, returns usually lag soon after. This is very similar to when a single coin peaks up before reverting back down."
- "in the real world while portfolios will not degrade and become fully concentrated like our coin flip example, they are very likely to experience portfolio standard deviation changes through shifts in correlation. Therefore I believe it is critical to monitor portfolio correlation. Essentially correlation is the rudder on the investment portfolio ship, charting its most likely heading."

[Breaking the Market](https://breakingthemarket.com/randomness-in-momentum-everywhere/): Randomness in Momentum Everywhere [Part 1]
- "Randomness explains much of the "Momentum Effect" in stocks.  Yes, you read that correctly, much of the evidence for momentum can actually be explained through randomness."
- "Jesse Livermore (the anonymous blogger not the historical investor) studied momentum in stocks and concluded that: 'The strategy substantially under performed buy and hold in every stock except $GE.  The pattern is not limited – it extends out to the vast majority of stocks in the S&P 500.  The strategy [momentum] performs poorly in almost all of them despite performing very well in the index.' The fact that the strategy performs poorly in individual securities is a significant problem as it represents a failed out-of-sample test that should not occur if the popular explanations for the strategy’s [momentum] efficacy are correct."
- A recent article by Cory Hoffstein ('Sector Momentum') looked into momentum inside "sectors" of the market.  He found that the equal weight sector strategy explained the “momentum effect”, not momentum in the sectors themselves: _"Rather it would appear that a top N momentum strategy was merely able to back its way into harvesting the return benefits of the equal-weight portfolio ... It would appear the real hero here in our top N momentum strategy is not momentum, but rather the equal-weight sector tilt implied in the strategy"_. Pretty similar to what I said above about momentum being a product of developing equal weight portfolios and the rebalancing of them. It’s the nature of the strategy creating results, not "stocks that go up continue to go up."
- We already know momentum screens select high volatility stocks. High volatility stocks will inherently have a large spread between their arithmetic and geometric returns. Therefore, the shape of the momentum return stream over time isn’t really an anomaly at all, but is expected. You don’t need to say the momentum effect works in the short run and then fades. It’s all explainable with randomness and geometric compounded returns. You don’t need stock "momentum" to explain the results of the study. The rules of the strategy alone create the illusion of momentum, even with random coin flips.
- I’m not saying that randomness explains ALL of the momentum effect. It may. I’m saying randomness and rebalancing undoubtedly explain SOME of the findings of these papers. The process of selecting high volatility stocks and rebalancing them frequently produces most of “momentum’s” performance. If researchers compared their results to a random data set, they would see this.

--- 

### On mathematical expectancy vs. the CAGR

[Moontower Meta](https://moontowermeta.com/well-what-did-you-expect/): Well What Did You Expect? 
- "what is the relationship of mathematical expectancy and the CAGR?" It’s an important question since that theoretical arithmetic mean is only expected if we live thousands of lives (actually there are ways to experience the arithmetic mean without relying on reincarnation. This is pleasant news because what good is being rich if you come back a pony.) We want to focus on the CAGR, which is much closer to what we might experience. It turns out that number is lower.
- How much lower? It depends on how volatile the investment is. The formula that relates the arithmetic mean and CAGR: CAGR = Arithmetic Mean – .5 * σ², where: σ = annualized volatility. The formula tells us that the arithmetic and geometric mean (“CAGR”) will diverge by the volatility. And that volatility term is squared…which means the divergence is extremely sensitive to the volatility.
- By re-balancing, you "create" more lives by not concentrating your wealth in a single bucket which swamps the rest of your portfolio as it grows. If you never rebalanced BTC on the way up it would have eventually become nearly 100% of your portfolio and then 2022 happened. Rebalancing is _not changing your overall expectancy_; it’s changing the distribution of returns by pushing the median return (geometric mean or CAGR) up to your theoretical arithmetic return. This trade-off is not free. If you rebalance you don’t get the 1000x payoff that occurs when a single concentrated position hits 50 heads in a row.
