### On why trend-following seems to work

[Breaking the Market](https://breakingthemarket.com/to-infinity-and-back/): To Infinity and Back
- Most trend following strategies use trailing moving averages to define the level of loss required to trigger selling. Those averages lag behind the current price.  If the price falls back down below the trailing moving average, the asset is sold in order to limit losses.  Others use a trailing moving stop, i.e, when the price falls 10% from its peak, they sell it. If you read my blog, you know I don’t believe individual assets trend or show momentum.  But, trend following is still a very viable strategy, with some very unique attributes.
- Trend following effectively expands (increases) the arithmetic return of the game. This lead to the conclusion that trend following individual assets may work because it: (a) Combines a group of low correlated, return expanding, “infinity” games together; (b) Uses the natural tendency of an investment fail quickly to partially rebalance the games. This system works, even if the underlying stocks behave entirely randomly, never actually trending.
- So random coin flip games set up to simulate trend following rules produce great returns.  But what about the variance and standard deviation of those returns? Turns out the +50%/heads, -40%/tails game produces infinite standard deviation as well. As the winnings expand with a large number of consecutive heads, the standard deviation grows even faster, shooting upward to infinity.
- Compounding distorts arithmetic returns, and standard deviation, to the point of driving them to infinity. But since the geometric return is an average built for compounding, it never gets distorted. The geometric return is the "truth" return when it comes to multiplicative games. You can’t hide from it and it will always be there. Investing games are always multiplicative games. Even when the arithmetic return is undefended, and the variance is undefined, the geometric return can still very much be defined.  The geometric return is actually more tangible, more real, than any other measure of a compounded random processes.

[Breaking the Market](https://breakingthemarket.com/trend-following-is-hot-air/): Trend Following is Hot Air
- "The easiest conclusion is that a concentrated market index is potentially trouble. And there is some historical data which backs this up. Entering 2000 the S&P 500 was historically concentrated. We know how that played out. Also historically when the “market breadth”–the number of stocks which rise during a rally–is low, returns usually lag soon after. This is very similar to when a single coin peaks up before reverting back down."
- "in the real world while portfolios will not degrade and become fully concentrated like our coin flip example, they are very likely to experience portfolio standard deviation changes through shifts in correlation. Therefore I believe it is critical to monitor portfolio correlation. Essentially correlation is the rudder on the investment portfolio ship, charting its most likely heading."

[Breaking the Market](https://breakingthemarket.com/randomness-in-momentum-everywhere/): Randomness in Momentum Everywhere [Part 1]
- "Randomness explains much of the "Momentum Effect" in stocks.  Yes, you read that correctly, much of the evidence for momentum can actually be explained through randomness."
- "Jesse Livermore (the anonymous blogger not the historical investor) studied momentum in stocks and concluded that: 'The strategy substantially under performed buy and hold in every stock except $GE. The pattern is not limited – it extends out to the vast majority of stocks in the S&P 500.  The strategy [momentum] performs poorly in almost all of them despite performing very well in the index.' The fact that the strategy performs poorly in individual securities is a significant problem as it represents a failed out-of-sample test that should not occur if the popular explanations for the strategy’s [momentum] efficacy are correct."
- A recent article by Cory Hoffstein ('Sector Momentum') looked into momentum inside "sectors" of the market. He found that the equal weight sector strategy explained the “momentum effect”, not momentum in the sectors themselves: _"Rather it would appear that a top-N momentum strategy was merely able to back its way into harvesting the return benefits of the equal-weight portfolio ... It would appear the real hero here in our top N momentum strategy is not momentum, but rather the equal-weight sector tilt implied in the strategy"_. Pretty similar to what I said above about momentum being a product of developing equal weight portfolios and the rebalancing of them. It’s the nature of the strategy creating results, not "stocks that go up continue to go up."
- We already know momentum screens select high volatility stocks. High volatility stocks will inherently have a large spread between their arithmetic and geometric returns. Therefore, the shape of the momentum return stream over time isn’t really an anomaly at all, but is expected. You don’t need to say the momentum effect works in the short run and then fades. It’s all explainable with randomness and geometric compounded returns. You don’t need stock "momentum" to explain the results of the study. The rules of the strategy alone create the illusion of momentum, even with random coin flips.
- I’m not saying that randomness explains ALL of the momentum effect. It may. I’m saying randomness and rebalancing undoubtedly explain SOME of the findings of these papers. The process of selecting high volatility stocks and rebalancing them frequently produces most of “momentum’s” performance. If researchers compared their results to a random data set, they would see this.
