#### Factor investing

[alphaarchitect.com](https://alphaarchitect.com/2023/01/mitigating-risks-with-factor-strategies/): Mitigating Risks with Factor Strategies
- Elkamhi, Lee and Salerno grouped the 76 anomalies they studied into five categories according to the classification provided by the authors of the study “Replicating Anomalies”: cross-sectional momentum, intangibles, value versus growth, profitability, and investment
- They are also consistent with those of the authors of the 2018 study “Tail Behavior in Portfolio Optimization for Equity Style Factors,” who examined the performance of the five Fama-French factors (market beta, size, value, investment and profitability)—as well as momentum—to determine how these factors behaved in the tail of their distribution. They concluded: "Our results indicate that Fama-French factors offer diversification benefits during periods when market experiences losses. As a consequence, they comprise a useful source of information when we wish to optimize the asset allocation of our portfolio"
- Traditional portfolios such as 60% equity/40% bonds concentrate the vast majority of their risk in one single factor: market beta. In addition, stock and bond correlations are time-varying/regime dependent. As investors were reminded in 2022, their correlations, while averaging about zero over the long term, can turn sharply positive at the worst time, leading to large portfolio drawdowns. Financial advisors and investors have a large body of evidence demonstrating that adding the unique risks of factor strategies has historically improved portfolio efficiency and reduced the size of drawdowns (which can help investors stay disciplined, avoiding panicked selling)

[alphaarchitect.com](https://alphaarchitect.com/2023/02/expected-stock-returns/): Inside the Minds of Expected Stock Returns
- Explanations for the casual relationship between firm characteristics and returns are classified as either risk- or behavioral-based.
- Risk-based explanations: Stocks with certain characteristics tend to perform worse when the marginal utility of money is high (such as in recessions, when unemployment is high and labor capital is at risk). Thus, investors demand a risk premium in return for accepting the risks of firms (companies on the long side of a factor) with such characteristics. On the flip side (companies on the short side of a factor), investors rationally pay a high price and accept low average returns for stocks that provide insurance against bad economic regimes.
- There are two categories of behavioral-based explanations: behavioral errors that lead to mispricing and a taste-based explanation.
- Behavioral explanation: certain firm characteristics correlate with, or induce, overly optimistic beliefs. Overly optimistic beliefs can arise from investors’ extrapolation of past cash-flow growth or stock market performance (recency bias) and overconfidence. In the presence of limits to arbitrage, overly optimistic beliefs generate overpricing. Since overpricing is eventually corrected, these characteristics predict low future stock returns.
- Taste-based explanation: investors prefer (they derive utility from) extreme payoffs even if the probability of receiving such payoffs is exceedingly small, causing them to overpay (from a purely economic perspective) for assets with a lottery-like distribution of returns.

[@macrocephalopod on Twitter](https://twitter.com/macrocephalopod/status/1369418210399952907): Short thread about momentum as a risk factor and why you should take it seriously.
- At first glance it sounds stupid — why would stocks that recently went up continue to move together in the future? People who love positioning will make some argument about overlapping holdings across firms, leverage, crowding, unwind risk, squeezes etc and I’m sure that’s part of the answer, but there’s a simpler and better one. Stocks that went up (or down) a lot recently probably did so because they are all part of the same “theme”. Could be a sector but it doesn’t have to be — it could be something like ‘reflation’ or ‘reopening’ or ‘EVs’ or ‘China’.
- The quant view is that they share common factor exposures. The cool thing is that you don’t need to know what the factor exposures are — one way to view the momentum factor is as an integral over all other factor exposures, weighted by factor volatility. That is, more volatile (= relatively more important) factors will move stock prices more, so the momentum factor will load up on them, in proportion to how important they are.
- It’s common to neutralise momentum to other factors (eg sectors, countries, size etc). In the limit where you neutralize to all known factors, momentum is a summary of exposure to all the *unknown* factors, the stuff you didn’t model because you didn’t know about it. That’s why you should include momentum in your risk model even if you don’t plan to use it as a source of alpha — it’s a simple, robust way of modelling the risks that you aren’t smart enough to think of in advance.
