## Long-term care insurance notes

Initial analysis notes
- with a "self-insured" approach involving just 3 people, the payout ratio will be pretty low (depending on whether 0, 1, 2, or all 3 of us develop neurological disorders). for example, if we each paid $200 / month for 17 years (until we're about 65), the first table lists what our total contributions would be during that time, as well as what we would get back if 0, 1, 2, or 3 of us developed symptoms. the second table is the same, except it shows what our contributions and payouts would be if we each paid $300 per month. (the cost of a long-term care policy for a guy in his early 50s would probably be around $100 - $200 per month)
- "payout ratio: (+) diagnoses" = payout / contribution for those of us with symptoms, "payout ratio: (-) diagnoses" = payout / contribution for those of us without any symptoms
- i think that with a long-term care policy, the payout ratios could be a lot higher (but with a lot more paperwork to fill out).
- assumptions: these are extremely simple to start with - in fact too simple. but they illustrate the basic payout ratios: 1) a conservative 6.5% annual return on contributed funds; 2) at the end of the 17-year term, we get back our accumulated funds if none of us develops symptoms; otherwise, if one or more of us develop symptoms, then the accumulated funds will go entirely to the unlucky ones; we can extend the terms to 20 / 25 / 30 years in these calculations, but it won't change the payout ratios very much

[Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/personalfinance/comments/yv1zmi/my_long_term_care_insurance_premium_currently/): My long-term care insurance premiums
- "If you have the money to cover it anyways and no one you particularly care to leave it to, I'd just drop the policy. Last thing you want when getting to the point of needing care is to be jumping through their hoops and using their chosen providers. If you have a good reason to die with the most money possible, then make sure you have someone that knows how the policy works and can navigate it when you need the coverage."
- "Having seen it up close, getting money and services out of LTC coverage is a tedious and unpleasant affair" ... "The administrator at the LTC facility my relative was at said she had NEVER seen payout. I tried really hard with my relative's LTC policy, and wasn't successful. Plus it paid shit" ... "A really disturbingly high number of folks entering nursing homes die before the elimination period on LTCI is reached. Happened to my grandfather. He had $500k in coverage. In the end, they paid for one month. He was there for 3.5 months. First 3 weren’t covered because of the elimination period."
- POV: "You are self insured with 2 million. Cancel today. You have been wasting the premiums."
- Alternate POV: "Just because you CAN pay for long term care doesn’t mean you want to. In fact, OP is in that sort of “doughnut hole” (which I would say is $500k-$2 million or so in assets) where having long term care makes the most sense - too little assets for long term care to just be a rounding error, but too much to qualify for Medicare. I would tend to keep the policy. The last thing you want to do is be in a long term care facility thinking you are just being a drain on your families’ resources." ... "With your assets, I'd probably stop. Also, just as a point of reference, assisted living here runs $6-7,000 USD/month and skilled nursing runs more than $10,000. Private caregivers run $4,800/week. Keep in mind that you will need somebody well-versed in the policy and how to file for benefits. After the experience I had, I am starting to believe that many LTC policies are scams."
- Counterpoint: "OP qualifies for medicare. You're talking about medicaid. Medicaid pays for long term care once assets are depleted. Which is completely fair. But additionally, you're not going to necessarily want to stay in a facility that you find once you've hidden your assets or spent down. There's a huge difference between care facilities and some are more horrible than you can imagine. OP isn't going to be a drain on his family's resources. He's going to be spending his retirement savings on his retirement."

---

[NY Times](https://archive.is/rhiRN#selection-691.0-691.40): New Gene Tests Pose a Threat to Insurers [2017]
- "But last month, with the approval of the Food and Drug Administration, the gene testing company 23andMe began offering tests that reveal whether people have the variant, as well as assessing their risks for developing such conditions as Parkinson’s and celiac disease. Other genetics companies are planning to offer similar tests, and soon millions of people will have a better idea what their medical futures might be. Recent research has found that many, like Ms. Reilly, are likely to begin preparing for the worst."
- But for companies selling long-term care insurance, these tests could be a disaster, sending risky patients in search of policies even as those with fewer risks shy away, damaging an already fragile business. “There is a question about whether the industry is in a death spiral anyway,” said Robert Hunter, director of insurance at the Consumer Federation of America. “This could make it worse.”
- At the moment, companies selling long-term care insurance — unlike medical insurers — are permitted to ask about health status and take future health into consideration when deciding whom to insure and how much to charge. The 23andMe test results will not appear in people’s medical records, and the company promises not to disclose identifiable findings to third parties. It is up to the customers to reveal them — and the fear for insurers is that many will not.
- In the early 2000s, more than 100 firms offered long-term care insurance, according to the Treasury Department. By the end of 2015, only 12 firms offered it, and new enrollees fell from 171,000 to 104,000.
The insurers charged too little for these policies, experts say; policyholders have turned out to be much sicker than anticipated. To pay for an unanticipated increase in policyholders who develop Alzheimer’s, insurers would have to raise prices, said Don Taylor, a professor of public policy at Duke University who has studied the issue.
- Increasing numbers of people at low risk might decide the insurance was not worth the rising price. Even many at high risk would eventually find the policies unaffordable. It is the definition of an insurance death spiral. If that happens, said Mark Rothstein, the director of the bioethics institute at the University of Louisville’s medical school, even more people with Alzheimer’s will end up on Medicaid, with the federal government paying for their nursing home care. Yet even if just a minority of 23andMe customers decided to game the current insurance system, “it’s enough to perturb the market,” said Dr. Robert Cook-Deegan, a professor at the school for the future of innovation in society at Arizona State University ...
- Research by Dr. Robert C. Green, a geneticist at Harvard University, indicates that this is exactly what is likely to happen. Drawing on data from his clinical trials involving more than 1,000 people, Dr. Green has found that people who learn they have the ApoE4 gene fare just as well if they get the results without counseling. But he also found that those who learned they had the gene variant — Ms. Reilly was one of them — were nearly six times more likely to buy long-term care insurance than those who did not. The ApoE4 gene variant is present in about a quarter of the population. Many thought there was no need to tell the insurer why they suddenly wanted a policy. “All the insurance companies are concerned about this,” said Dr. Green, who has been discussing the problem with industry executives.
