### Strategy: return-stacked 60/40 absolute return index

Goals
- Aims to provide exposure to a U.S. 60% equity, 40% bond allocation while stacking diversifying alternative exposures, including tail protection, on top
- Stacking is achieved by allocating to a custom basket of widely available Mutual Funds and ETFs, which embed a variety of capital efficient exposures to equities, bonds and alternative strategies
- Assets are allocated to 10 mutual funds/ETFs with weights between 3% - 15%, with weights adding up to 100%. Due to the leverage in some of these funds, the notional exposure adds up to 160%.

---

### Return-stacking explained

From the Optimized Portfolio [blog post](https://www.optimizedportfolio.com/return-stacking/), "Return Stacking Explained – Greater Returns With Lower Risk?"
- Return-stacking involves borrowing or levering up to free up capital and “stacking” different sources of expected return atop one another, preferably using assets with low or negative correlations among them to maximize diversification and lower risk. This idea has historically also been called “portable alpha” and “overlays.”
- This can result in "achieving more than $1.00 of exposure for each $1.00 invested," thus improving the efficiency of invested capital, and possibly reducing risk if we're adding uncorrelated exposures. This can be particularly useful when faced with low expected returns for multiple core assets like stock and bonds.
- Implemention of "achieving more than $1.00 of exposure for each $1.00 invested": NTSX from WisdomTree, which has exposure to 90% U.S. large cap stocks and 60% exposure to intermediate U.S. treasury bonds via futures contracts. There are also sister funds NTSI and NTSE for ex-US Developed Markets and Emerging Markets respectively.
- The traditional approach involves “grasping for returns” by "stretching for higher yields and increasing pro-cyclical asset exposure." Instead it's more capital efficient to lever up core assets and allocate the free capital to uncorrelated assets, thus lowering the portfolio's overall volatility.

Backtest using Portfolio Visualizer, comparing 4 portfolios
- Portfolio 1 is just the classic 60/40 portfolio – 60% stocks and 40% bonds using intermediate treasuries. Portfolio 2 is an approximation of NTSX, which is 90/60, or effectively 1.5x 60/40. So 90% stocks and 60% intermediate treasuries. Portfolio 3 takes the freed up capital and buys an uncorrelated asset, in this case gold. Lastly we’ve got 100% stocks via the S&P 500 to compare against.
- Comparison results: 90/60 exposure delivered the highest absolute return of the bunch, with general and risk-adjusted returns considerably higher than those of the S&P 500. Because we simply levered up the 60/40, those two have nearly identical risk-adjusted returns. Portfolio 3 with gold didn’t get us the highest absolute return but it did get us the smallest drawdown (2008 crash), the best worst year, and the highest risk-adjusted return. Again, we had a much lower risk profile than 100% stocks across multiple dimensions of risk.

---

### Return-stacking from POV of Portfolio tilts versus overlays

From the Newfound Research [blog](https://blog.thinknewfound.com/2023/04/portfolio-tilts-versus-overlays-its-long-short-portfolios-all-the-way-down/), "Portfolio Tilts versus Overlays: It’s Long/Short Portfolios All the Way Down".

The distance between any two portfolios can be measured as a long/short strategy.
- Example: suppose you buy the iShares MSCI USA Value ETF (“VLUE”).  If we subtract the weights of holdings in VLUE from the S&P 500, we can identify how much VLUE is over- or underweight any given position. This is equivalent to saying, “VLUE is equal to the S&P 500 plus a long/short portfolio” where the longs are the overweights and the shorts are the underweights.
- Tilts and overlays are not mutually exclusive: it’s long/short portfolios all the way down.
- Through the lens of long/short portfolios all the way down, everything is an "overlay." Buying value stocks? Equity long/short overlay on broad equity market. Rebalancing your portfolio?  Multi-asset long/short overlay on top of your prior asset allocation.
- This lets us calculate the implicit hurdle rate for alpha required to overcome the fee. E.g. if VLUE = 100% x S&P 500 + 86.2% x Long/Short, i.e. the longs and shorts both sum up to 86.2%. The positions in the long/short capture our active bets while the 86.2% here is our active share. The current expense ratio for VLUE is 0.15% and the current expense ratio for the iShares Core S&P 500 ETF (“IVV”) is 0.03%. So 0.15% = 0.03% + 86.2% x Fee of Long/Short. This means the implicit fee of the long/short strategy is 0.139%. This is the hurdle rate that the long/short portfolio must clear before it adds any excess return.
- While active bets are responsible for generating alpha, the combination of a high fee and a low active share can lead to an unclearable hurdle rate. In the example above, if the active share was just 10% (i.e., the fund was a closet benchmarker), the hurdle rate would jump to 1.2%.

How do investors implement portfolio overlays?
- For leverage-constrained allocators (e.g. many financial advisors), overlays have historically remained out of reach.  More flexible institutions were able to implement it through a process that became known as “portable alpha,” originally pioneered by PIMCO in the 1970s. It's called such because the net portfolio construction, in effect, retains the beta and "ports" the alpha on as an overlay.
- The implementation, on paper, is fairly simple: (i) Replace passive beta exposure with a capital efficient derivative (e.g. futures or swaps) to free up capital. (ii) Allocate freed up capital to the desired alpha source.
- Example of this approach, where a 60/40 allocation is packaged into a capital efficient '90/60' fund, allowing an investor to utilize just 2/3rds of their capital to capture the same exposure. When this freed up capital is allocated, it effectively 'stacks' the exposure on top of the original 60/40 portfolio. This approach is also known as "Return Stacking."
- The freed-up capital should be invested in assets with positive expected returns and low correlation to both stocks and bonds, such as managed futures.

---

### Does return-stacking still work in a high-interest rate environment?

From the Newfound Research [blog](https://blog.thinknewfound.com/2023/01/return-stacking-in-an-inverted-yield-curve-environment/), "Return Stacking in an Inverted Yield Curve Environment":
- With the yield curve severely inverted, paying short-term financing costs to invest in long-term Treasuries to achieve our leverage may seem like a losing prospect. Is leverage now unattractive because the cost of financing is so high? Why is this view incorrect?
- The prototypical return-stacking example is a 1.5x levered 60% stock / 40% bond portfolio (also referred to as a “90/60”), which allows investors to achieve the exposure of a 60/40 using just two-thirds of their capital. There are several different implementations of this: (1) For every $1 invested, invest $0.9 in stocks and hold $0.1 as cash collateral for a $0.6 notional position in U.S. Treasury futures [90% SPY, 10% BIL, 60% Treasury Futures]. (2) For every $1 invested, buy $0.6 of U.S. Treasuries and hold $0.4 in cash as collateral for $0.9 in S&P 500 futures exposure [60% GOVT, 40% BIL, 90% S&P futures]. (3) Simply borrowed money to lever an entire 60/40 portfolio up 1.5x [90% SPY, 60% GOVT, -50% BIL]. Surprisingly, the 2013-2021 annual returns of the 3 implementations of levered 60/40 are very similar!
- In practice, we do care how we implement a return-stacked portfolio.  Not because the yield curve is inverted, but because explicitly borrowing at the short-term Treasury Bill rate is difficult for all but the largest institutions. Margin rates at the major brokerages are currently very high, well above the 3M T-bill rate: 10.75% at Schwab, 11.33% at Fidelity, and 12.50% at TD Ameritrade. In contrast, the "embedded financing cost" of 10Y Treasury futures is still very close to the 3M T-bill rate and thus much cheaper than actually borrowing on margin. A chart of the two since 2004 ["implied repo rate" for the Treasury futures vs. the 3M T-bill rate] shows both moving in almost lockstep. Hence the implmentation of 10% BIL + 60% Treasury Futures is chosen as the way to get long-term Treasuries exposure in practice.
- The answer to why higher short-term rates have not made leveraged portfolios less attractive: because it's the excess returns above the risk-free rate that matter. The expected return of stocks should be equal to the risk-free rate plus the equity risk premium (“ERP”), or $`RP_{stocks} + r_{f}`$, where "RP" := risk premium. Similarly, the expected return of bonds should be equal to the risk-free rate plus the bond risk premium (“BRP”), or $`RP_{bonds} + r_{f}`$.

**Explanation**
- Whether we’re holding cash, fully invested, or levered, all we are doing is scaling the risk premium exposure relative to a default $`60\%*ER_{stocks} + 40\%*ER_{bonds}`$ portfolio, which is equivalent to $`60\%*RP_{stocks} + 40\%*RP_{bonds} + 100\%*r_{f}`$.
- If this default 6/40 stock/bond portfolio is expressed as $`\rho*(60\%*RP_{stocks} + 40\%*RP_{bonds}) + 100\%*r_{f}`$ where $\rho$ = 1.0, then by increasing or decreasing this $`\rho`$, we can get a leveraged version of the 60/40 found in return-stacking implementations, or a more conservative version of 60/40 that holds a portion of assets in cash. 
- Assuming we can borrow at a rate close to $r_{f}$ (the case using Treasury futures to lever up the bond portion of the portfolio), setting $\rho$ = 1.5 yields a portfolio with this expected return: $`1.5*(60\%*ER_{stocks} + 40\%*ER_{bonds}) - 50\%*r_{f}`$ = $`1.5*\{60\%*(RP_{stocks} + r_{f}) + 40\%*(RP_{bonds} + r_{f})\} - 50\%*r_{f}`$ = $`90\%*RP_{stocks} + 60\%*RP_{bonds} + (150\%*r_{f} - 50\%*r_{f})`$ = $`90\%*RP_{stocks} + 60\%*RP_{bonds} + 100\%*r_{f}`$. In other words, the 90/60 portfolio.
- Similarly, setting $\rho$ = 0.75 gives us a portfolio: $`75\%*(60\%*ER_{stocks} + 40\%*ER_{bonds}) + 25\%*r_{f}`$ = $`45\%*RP_{stocks} + 30\%*RP_{bonds} + (75\%*r_{f} + 25\%*r_{f})`$ = $`45\%*RP_{stocks} + 30\%*RP_{bonds} + 100\%*r_{f}`$. In other words, a 45/30/25 portfolio.
- Regardless of what $\rho$ is set to, i.e. the leverage level, it is the asset class returns in excess of $r_{f}$ - e.g. $RP_{stocks}$ or $RP_{bonds}$ - that affect the final return. The extent of leverage and the mix of assets determine the relative weights given to $RP_{stocks}$ or $RP_{bonds}$ in the final expected return. These equations indicate that if the levered portfolios are unattractive to invest in, then the unlevered portfolio (with $\rho$ = 1.0) is also unattractive to invest in. If $`\rho*(60\%*RP_{stocks} + 40\%*RP_{bonds}) + 100\%*r_{f}`$ < 0 with $\rho$ = 1.0, then changing it to some other non-zero number won't give us a higher return than just holding cash and earning $r_{f}$. Note that whether or not an investor wants to allocate 60% to SPY or 40% to long-term Treasuries is a different matter than whether they should use leverage. If the investor thinks near-term returns from long-term Treasuries will be negative, then they should reduce or eliminate their Treasuries allocation, regardless of leverage.

**What if the freed-up capital is invested in alternative assets?**
- Assuming that alternative assets provide a return equal to $r_{f} + \alpha$, where $\alpha$ = return from an active trading strategy, the overall cash position (the position in risk-free assets) should still sum up to 100%, yielding a $`100\%*r_{f}`$ component to the overall return.
- Example: Suppose we allocate 66.67% to a 90/60 fund and the remaining 33.33% to a managed futures fund. The 90/60 portion of the portfolio's return can be decomposed to: $`66.67\%*(90\%*RP_{stocks} + 60\%*RP_{bonds} + (150\%*r_{f} - 50\%*r_{f}))`$ = $`60\%*RP_{stocks} + 40\%*RP_{bonds} + 66.67\%*r_{f}`$. The 33.33% allocated to a managed futures fund has an expected return of $`33.67\%*\alpha + 33.67\%*r_{f}`$, so the overall return from the 66.67% allocation to 90/60 + 33.67% allocation to managed futures is: $`60\%*RP_{stocks} + 40\%*RP_{bonds} + 33.67\%*\alpha + 100\%*r_{f}`$. In other words, we get an additional $33.67\%*\alpha$ of return from return-stacking.

**Key takeaways**
1. The specific asset being levered matter less than the composition of the levered portfolio.
2. We should choose to lever the asset that provides a cost of financing as close to $r_{f}$ as possible.
3. What matters is the return in excess of $r_{f}$.
4. An active view about the relative attractiveness of Treasuries applies regardless of whether we lever the portfolio.


See the 'Raise Your Average' podcast interview notes below for more on this topic.

---

### Blogs / podcasts

[YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EDeeI4664Jk): 'Raise Your Average' interview with Corey Hoffstein [[transcript](https://www.assemblyai.com/playground/transcript/6gchn5w188-0e2d-47a8-b0f3-fb4b48fe392d)]
- A major benefit of return-stacking is that you don't need to allocate funds away from 60/40 to alternatives which may offer diversification benefits but underperform for extended periods of time. The funds for those alternatives come from leveraged vehicles such as futures. Other notes: the S&P is already levered 3:1 due to the balance sheets of its companies. The alternatives portion of many advisor portfolios are allocated to private equity, real estate, and venture capital, all of which are leveraged forms of investment and are exposed to the same economic risks as the S&P; they've done well in the past decade b/c the overall equity market has done well, but may not provide much diversification benefit in a different economic environment.
- Question: Does the portable alpha approach of getting exposure to alternatives through leverage still hold with today's high interest rates? It's important to remember that on that Y-axis, it's not simple returns, but rather **excess returns**. It doesn't really matter what the leverage cost is, as long as you can lever up at the risk free rate, $r_{f}$. If you wouldn't hold stocks at 1.1X or 1.2X leverage, you wouldn't hold them unleveraged either. If you would've held the asset unlevered because you think it will outperform cash, then adding leverage to it isn't suddenly going to make it underperform. If you're holding a 60/40 portfolio, you should be just as willing to hold a levered 90/60.
- We generally expect the equity risk premium and bond risk premium to float on top of the risk-free rate $r_{f}$. If $r_{f}$ = 0%, the equity risk premium historically might be 3-4%. With $r_{f}$ = 4%, we might expect the nominal equity return to be 7-8% (as stocks will usually reset at a lower price after rate hikes). If $r_{f}$ = 4.5% but you try to lever up in your brokerage account, it will cost you 12-13% [which is too high of a hurdle]. But if you're using futures, like Treasury futures, to efficiently get leverage, historically the cost of that implied financing is very close to the 3-month T-bill or the LIBR SOFR.
- Moreover, the funds that use capital-efficient futures to get S&P exposure will put their large cash position into T-bills, thus earning carry that partially offsets the borrowing cost of the leverage.

---

### Twitter research

[2022-09-29 thread](https://twitter.com/choffstein/status/1575536886575116289?lang=en) on "Is Return Stacking just Portable Alpha rebranded?"
- Yes.  But also no.  A few key differences.
- First, what is Portable Alpha? Returns are split between alpha and beta.  Beta components are replicated using capital efficient derivatives so that cash can be allocated to alpha managers. This concept goes back decades (PIMCO, arguably, invented it in the 1980s with their StocksPLUS programs), but got very popular in the early 2000s.
- And then 2008 happened and shit sort of broke down and people lost interest. Why? Replicate equities with futures and hold 20% cash as collateral. Allocate 80% to hedge funds. Cue a massive drawdown and a margin call you can't meet because the HF positions are illiquid. That's an extreme example, but basically, it was a big mismatch in liquidity between collateral needs (immediate) and potential collateral sources (gated hedge funds).
- So how is Return Stacking different than this? First, Return Stacking wraps up all the derivative management into a fund structure, making it non-recourse. So you can't lose more than you invest and you'll never get a margin call.  The fund structure stands between you. Second, since mutual funds and ETFs need to be able to provide daily liquidity, they are combining highly liquid exposures to create capital efficiency. E.g. if I combine stocks + treasury futures and I blow through my cash collateral, I can always sell stocks down. That doesn't prevent *you* from making an illiquid investment, but it does change the nature of the problem.
- Consider investing 66.7% of your money in $NTSX.  Your effective exposure is 60% stocks / 40% bonds. You can take the remaining 33.3% and invest in an illiquid HF. Oh no – 2022 rears its ugly head and stocks and bonds collapse together! What happens?  $NTSX has a drawdown... but that's about it. (Internally, $NTSX sells both stock and Treasury future exposure to maintain its target allocation and margin requirements.) Big picture, your asset allocation might get out of whack (too little $NTSX and too much illiquid hedge fund) and you might not be able to rebalance, but you're not having to try to redeem from an illiquid hedge fund to meet a margin call.

[2022-08-07 tweet](https://twitter.com/HML_Compounder/status/1554943229870628865?s=20&t=QBwqSrWLWFZkHA0ezMcExw): "Fun/quick piece from @AuspiceCapital on return-stacking, specifically with CTAs - [Auspice Capital blog](https://t.co/dknnZJgIYS), "Return-stacking - What, When, Where, How"
- I remember trying this in the 1990s using fabulous looking CTAs in the same equation. It was bust. Adding a top surviving CTA sure looks in a backtest! They always do - until they don’t.
- There is no magic alpha here. You can just look once a month and go long/short based on 12m return and do great [per AQR's time-series momemtum research]. I struggle to believe you didn't have huge outperformance by adding CTAs in 1990's to equities. Were they pure trend or getting cute?
- "It was a bust. We had an entire analyst team at Smith Barney trying to pick winning CTAs. The gross returns ALWAYS look outstanding, it just doesn’t WORK in real life. The entire CTA industry is very expensive crapshoot. Just a gamble."
- ... "The most impressive investors I admire seem to have one common trait. They stay curious.  If CTAs were underperforming in the underbelly of the trenches, as you're suggesting, why on earth do they still exist? Just a buncha suckers falling for an expensive crapshoot over again?"
- ... "They exist for the same reason front-load actively managed mutual funds still exit - someone has an incentive to sell them."
- ... "Have you looked up the oldest surviving CTA mutual fund? Past performance is a significant determinant for mergers. Thus, HF, FoHF, & CTA mergers could be motivated by a need to eradicate bad performing funds. Results robust to different performance measures after correcting backfill bias & removing artificial serial correlation effects. As much as I agree the right fund can be worth a look, there's plenty that aren't. If you don't pick a systematic and well vetted methodology you can get hurt, and hurt more due to lacking of clear performance drivers. Worse yet, you can think you picked as well as possible and still get hurt. Long run is unforgiving. Stories like Rick's are worth consideration. If your CTAs only perform like cash, are you going to be OK? If so, maybe cash is worth considering instead." Linked [article](https://www.investmentnews.com/how-investors-lose-89-of-gains-from-futures-funds-54293): "How investors lose 89% of gains from futures funds".
- ... "Picking a single CTA is very, very hard.  One of the highest dispersion categories due to all the potential ways in which portfolio construction differences can vary."
- "... Thanks for sharing that. Is that why a fund like $DBMF (that targets the performance of a diversified pool of managed futures managers) may have an advantage over others? Do you have a system in place for analyzing individual CTA managers for risk/reward profile before consideration?"
- "... $DBMF may have an advantage because it (1) eliminates idiosyncratic, single manager risk and (2) potentially significantly reduces associated fees. But it introduces its own model risk.  It's all a trade off."
- ... "There are multi-manager options available to the masses but not as many as I’d like. $MAFIX is an interesting one which also includes a static 50% S&P500 exposure on top (I know you’re aware Corey but for others)." [$MAFIX exposures = 100% to managed futures, 50% to S&P futures, 70% to short-duration US fixed income.] Equity comes from futures though so not that tax-efficient. $BLNDX better in that regard with ETF equity exposure.
- Also quite likely that CTAs may exhibit less up-side participation during extended equity bull markets (such as 1990-2000, 2010-2020).
Behaviorally, it is very difficult to rebalance into a commodity allocation during expansion cycles. [Newfound Research blog](https://blog.thinknewfound.com/2020/02/can-managed-futures-offset-equity-losses/): Can managed futures offset equity losses?
- "I...  admit I don't get it.  I like NTSX and that family because the leverage is used for bond options, seems relatively stable...  I'm having trouble verifying the return data let alone understanding the construct."
- ... "NTSX to my understanding is using the 10% collateral to buy bond futures, not options. This product here would have a combo of ETFs, cash, and futures to give you 100% exposure to their managed futures, with a 60/40 or 70/30 equity/bond portfolio under it. Not too dissimilar from my taxable setup, I just use 100% equities instead of 60/40. In my case I use a margin loan to collateralize the futures, they are likely using part of the "bond" allocation (held in cash)."
- "Also I started my oldest sons UTMA return stacking. NTSX and DBMF."
- "To try and roughly replicate with US-traded ETFs, what’re your thoughts on this? BTOP50 ~= equal-weight [DBMF, KMLM, CTA], 70 / 30 ~= equal-weight [VT, NTSX, NTSI, NTSE] plus maybe GMOM, VAMO, VMOT for umph, TAIL and BTAL for protection, UPAR for classic risk parity."
- ... "Ya seems about right. Does include an equity long/flat trend on 50% of the equity. Maybe do VMOT+NTSX/I/E and then whatever CTA you like. Factor, trend, and cheap beta."
- "One Fund is quite neat. Think it’s more like 100% CTA + 100% 60/40 or 70/30 but still a slick setup. I prefer 100% equity + CTA myself :). And factors…. Cockroach is great that’s awesome you’ve got an allocation. Their 4 CTAs are all quite interesting."
- "we were discussing the funds from Mutiny. They offer a CTA fund with $100K min that exposes to 4 private CTAs, Jerry’s, Auspice Diversified, Quest(I think?), and EMC." ... "Quest was stupid high CAGR one if I remember right. Check out RCM’s [Guide to Trend-Following](https://www.rcmalternatives.com/2022/02/your-guide-to-trend-following/)."

[2022-08-07]: On CTAs as an overlay
- Impressive results using CTAs as overlays. Because CTAs have near zero corr with 60/40 and both have Sharpe of 0.85, 100/100% of both yields 0.85*sqrt(2) = 1.19, as reported
- E(return overall) = 2\*E(R per position), while stdev(overall) = sqrt(2\*stdev[position]).
- I made a similar research & same result (sqrt(2) multiple) for different periods in [blog post](https://hedgenordic.com/2020/06/60-40-portfolios-and-the-need-for-smart-diversification/): "60/40 portfolios and the need for smart diversification".

[2021-07-22 tweet](https://twitter.com/choffstein/status/1418266522900996101?lang=en): On $CYA as part of a capital-efficient leveraged strategy
- I know leverage is often seen as a “no-no” for home office gate keepers, but ETF’s like $NTSX and Simplify’s coming $TYA (https://sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1810747/000182912621005512/simplify_485apos.htm) get my creative juices going. e.g. 66% $NTSX + 34% $COM gives you a 60/40 with a 33% overlay in long/flat commodities
- To benefit from capital efficiency, we either need product sponsors to start co-mingling positions (e.g. “here’s your beta + overlay”) or we need to accept that our itemized portfolio may look weird. e.g. 60% $SPY + 16% $TYA would give you a 60/40.  But you now have 24% free. We can think of that 24% as an overlay to our 60/40, but the financing cost is embedded in the Treasury futures from $TYA!
- I should add that there are a bunch of mutual funds that are doing something similar. e.g. the PIMCO StocksPLUS series or DoubleLine Enhanced Shiller CAPE, both of which are 100% stocks + 100% bonds. Also $MAFIX and $BLNDX are 50% SPY + 100% managed futures.

bogleheads.org discussions on $TYA & $TUA: [1](https://www.bogleheads.org/forum/viewtopic.php?t=390430), [2](https://www.bogleheads.org/forum/viewtopic.php?t=365795)
- $TUA: The Simplify Short Term Treasury Futures Strategy ETF (TUA) seeks to provide total return, before fees and expenses, that matches or outperforms the performance of the ICE US Treasury 7-10 Year Bond Index on a calendar quarter basis. The fund looks to target the duration of the ICE 7-10 Year US Treasury Index by investing in Treasury futures at the short end of the curve. The fund is designed to provide significant duration from only a modest capital allocation while simultaneously attempting to _harvest yield curve efficiencies from the short end of the curve._
- $TYA: The Simplify Intermediate Term Treasury Futures Strategy ETF (TYA) seeks to provide total return, before fees and expenses, that matches or outperforms the performance of the ICE US Treasury 20+ Year Index on a calendar quarter basis. The fund looks to target the duration of the ICE 20+ Year US Treasury Index by investing in Treasuries and Treasury futures in the intermediate portion of the curve. The fund is designed to provide significant duration from only a modest capital allocation while simultaneously attempting to _harvest yield curve efficiencies from the belly of the curve._
- thread: "When the Fed starts tightening and flattening the curve, a Treasury futures strategy that gets it's duration by leveraging the short end of the curve will be hit harder. The opposite will happen when inflation or reflation steepens the curve. Over the long term the short end has had the highest sharpe and sortino ratios in treasuries, TIPS, corporate, and high yield bonds."
- From an article: "As you can see in the chart below, in the last three big phases of Fed easing, the 2-year yield falls much more than the 30-year UST. In these periods, it would’ve been more advantageous to own a duration equivalent 2-year U.S. Treasury position than the 30-year U.S. Treasury"
